Cut 0.28.0-rc.0 (#5632)
thanos-io/thanos: CHANGELOG.md

## Unreleased

## v0.28.0 - In Progress

## [v0.28.0-rc.0](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/tree/release-0.28) - 2022.08.22

### Fixed
- [#5502](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5502) Receive: Handle exemplar storage errors as conflict error.
- [#5534](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5534) Query: Set struct return by query API alerts same as prometheus API.
- [#5554](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5554) Query/Receiver: Fix querying exemplars from multi-tenant receivers.
- [#5583](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5583) Query: Fix data race between Respond() and query/queryRange functions. Fixes [#5410](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5410).

### Added

- [#5440](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5440) HTTP metrics: export number of in-flight HTTP requests.
- [#5424](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5424) Receive: Export metrics regarding size of remote write requests.
- [#5420](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5420) Receive: Automatically remove stale tenants.
- [#5472](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5472) Receive: Add new tenant metrics to example dashboard.

> - [#5475](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5475) Compact/Store: Added `--block-files-concurrency` allowing to configure number of go routines for downloading and uploading block files during compaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#5475](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5475) Compact/Store: Added `--block-files-concurrency` allowing to configure number of goroutines for downloading and uploading block files during compaction.
```

Author: Fixed.

> - [#5470](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5470) Receive: Implement exposing TSDB stats for all tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#5470](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5470) Receive: Expose TSDB stats as metrics for all tenants.
```

Author: Fixed.

- [#5493](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5493) Compact: Added `--compact.blocks-fetch-concurrency` allowing to configure number of goroutines for downloading blocks during compactions.
- [#5480](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5480) Query: Expose endpoint info timeout as a hidden flag `--endpoint.info-timeout`.
- [#5527](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5527) Receive: Add per request limits for remote write. Added four new flags `--receive.write-request-limits.max-size-bytes`, `--receive.write-request-limits.max-series`, `--receive.write-request-limits.max-samples` and `--receive.write-request-limits.max-concurrency` for limiting requests max body size, max amount of series, max amount of samples and max amount of concurrent requests.

> - [#5520](https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5520) Receive: Meta-monitoring based active series limiting. This mode is only available if Receiver is in Router or RouterIngestor mode, and config is provided. Added four new flags `receive.tenant-limits.max-head-series` for the max active series for the tenant, `receive.tenant-limits.meta-monitoring-url` for the Meta-monitoring URL, `receive.tenant-limits.meta-monitoring-query` for specifying the PromQL query to execute and `receive.tenant-limits.meta-monitoring-client` for specifying HTTP client configs.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that these features are exeprimental right now / the flags are hidden?

Author: Make sense. Updated!
But it is still not very clear what features are hidden now in Thanos. In the Query part, we have feature flags to align with Prometheus. Here we are using hidden flags. Should we choose one way to go in the future?

Reviewer 2: Definitely :+1: I didn't realize we are using two different ways, I'll put in an issue to resolve this.
